t._MB:Designers have a reasonable understanding of how to lay out light and medium monoplane bombers with up to three engines.  However, these principles are not easily extended to four-engined heavies.  Meanwhile, the unarmed fast bomber concept is limited to single-engined aircraft.
t._CA:Standard design guidelines specify the facilities and incidental equipment for the various crew positions on RAF bombers.
t._PD:RAF operational philosophy, worked out through theory and pre-war exercises, favours bombing from medium altitudes.
t._BF:Four main varieties of fuselage structure are available, encompassing the best of pre-war engineering practice.  The effect of each choice on tare weight, drag, serviceability, reliability, and vulnerability is well characterised.
t._BM:Established manufacturing principles for each of the main fuselage types allow accurate estimation of manufacturing cost.  Slender and geodetic fuselages increase aircraft cost, while slab-sided designs reduce it.
t._CW:The unbraced cantilever monoplane is the wing configuration of choice for modern aircraft - those old biplanes are just far too slow for this war.  Reasonably efficient standard aerofoil sections have been developed for bombers.  Weight and cost are superlinear in both span and chord, with slightly higher sensitivity to the former.
t._FT:While slightly more sophisticated than a tin can full of fuel, the petrol tanks on any bomber are one of the most vulnerable parts, owing to the risk of fire if damaged.  The tank weighs about an eighth as much as its contents when completely filled.
t._PE:Available engines for bomber designs include the Bristol Mercury and Armstrong-Siddeley Tiger radials, and the Rolls-Royce Merlin IV, a promising new in-line design.  The Tiger has the advantage of a two-speed supercharger, improving its high-altitude performance, but is somewhat heavy for its power output.
t._BT:A variety of turrets and fixed mountings are available to add defensive armament to bomber aircraft.  Besides adding weight, gun mounts also tend to increase the aircraft's drag, reducing performance.  However, gun coverage from multiple directions is important to protect the aircraft from enemy fighters.  Bombers (particularly at night) are most commonly attacked from the rear or sides, rarely head-on.
t._IB:Purpose-designed bombers no longer hang their bombs externally; storing the payload inside the aircraft in an enclosed bay greatly reduces drag.  However, the size of unobstructed volumes constrains the largest individual bombs that can be carried; designing around the 500lb General Purpose bombs allows a lighter structure, but larger bombs might become desirable for specialised uses in the future.  A wider bay also allows the carriage of naval mines.
t._ED:A simple dynamoelectric generator driven from the engine crankshaft provides a direct current supply for the bomber's electrical equipment, but can only meet fairly low power requirements.  It's not like we've invented any fancy electronics to plug into it anyway...
t._BN:Bomber Command navigates by map-reading and by 'astro' - celestial navigation, as practiced by mariners for over a century - to find the way to the target and back.
t._GR:RAF airfields provide only grass airstrips, necessitating large low-pressure tyres and low take-off speeds for bomber aircraft.  These grass runways are also subject to deterioration during periods of bad weather.  But crucially, they've allowed a very large number of operational airfields to be constructed in a short time.
t.FEB:By adapting the experience of large pre-war airliners, some heuristics can be postulated for the construction of four-engined military aircraft with a heavy load.  The required strength and toughness are far greater than civilian transports, though, so the stressing in this novel regime involves some guesswork.  This research is also applicable to even larger aircraft with up to 8 engines, although every additional pair increases the weight penalty.
t.MFE:Integrating the lessons learned from the first generation of four-engined heavies leads to more efficient structural design of wings built to carry two or more engines on each side.  Not only is the weight penalty more than halved, the cost of the engine mountings is also slightly reduced.
t.CRS:In the light of experience in operational combat environments, the crew stations can be redesigned to enable aircrew to better put their skills to use.  Bomb-aimers will find map-reading easier; navigators, their calculations; flight-engineers will be more effective at damage control; so will wireless-ops, who will also be better at using beams and beacons to aid in navigation.
t.ICS:Concerted efforts to optimise per-crewmember incidental equipment can reduce its weight by more than a fifth.  The seats don't need *quite* this much leather...
t.DHA:If, instead of levelling off at medium altitude for cruising flight, our bombers continue climbing en route to the target, we should be able to reduce losses to anti-aircraft fire.  This will require new raid planning techniques, particularly around fuel consumption planning; we will need to measure how much petrol each of our types uses in the extended climb.
t.IGF:With a better understanding of geodetic structures, we can reduce the cost of geodetic fuselages by 10% and their weight by nearly 20%.
t.RFF:New techniques for fuselage design can reduce weight by 20% or more, and knock 10% off drag, though production cost rises by 10%.  Slab-sided fuselages are less impacted, merely saving about 5% drag; these developments are not at all applicable to geodetics.
t.GSF:The structural engineers and aerodynamicists finally listened to each other, and now we can develop a geodetic fuselage with a better streamline form.  Drag will be reduced by one-ninth.
t.SCF:By getting roomfuls of 'calculator' girls to compute more accurate stresses, we can build fuselages with thinner metal, reducing weight by anything from a quarter to a half.  However, they have to be machined that much more precisely, so cost goes up nearly 10%.  Geodetics are impractical to calculate, so are not affected.
# TODO: Wing techs
t.SST:Installing self-sealing fuel tanks in our bombers will halve the risk of fire when attacked, though the tanks weigh 10% more and cost 25% more than the old kind.
t.FUG:Mating fuel tanks to a geodetic wing brings unique challenges; solving these will lower the chance of fire by 10%.
t.ISS:New formulations of self-sealing compound and a change of venting arrangements can knock another 30% off the vulnerability of fuel tanks.
t.LFT:Lighter alloys and thinner ribs make the next generation of fuel tanks lighter by a sixth - but more expensive by an eighth.
t.IFT:Better detail design of fuel tankage systems can reduce weight and vulnerability by 10%, while taking only 7% longer to produce.
